add(epp): prerequisites documenation for Azure monitoring (#1293)
centreon/centreon-documentation: en/integrations/plugin-packs/tutorials/azure-credential-configuration.md

---
id: azure-credential-configuration
title: Azure Monitoring Prerequisites
---
Two methods are available to get information from Azure:
* Azure API ('api').
* Azure CLI ('azcli').

Centreon recommends using **Azure API** instead of Azure CLI.  
Azure CLI method is not be compatible with host autodiscovery.

## Azure API set up 

> For Centreon to be able to request information about Azure resources through **Azure API**, 4 tokens are needed:

Reviewer: double "are"

> For Centreon to be able to request information about Azure resources through **Azure API**, 4 tokens are needed:

Reviewer 2: Fixed

* **subscription ID**
* **tenant ID**
* **client ID**
* **client secret** 

To have these tokens, you need to create a new application in Azure. The below steps detail how to create this application and set the right permissions to monitor Azure resources.

* Create an *Application* in Azure Active Directory:
	- Log in to Azure Portal.
	- Select **Azure Active Directory**.
	- On the left menu, go to **App registrations**.
	- Click on **+ New registration**, put the name of your application and then click on **Register**.
	
* Add the **Monitoring Reader role** to your new application:
	- Go to **Resource groups**.
	- Choose the resource group containing the resources you want to monitor. 
	- Click on **Access Control (IAM)** and **+ Add > Add role assignment**.
	- Search for **Monitoring Reader role** and click Next.
	- Select your new application as a member for this role by clicking on **+ Select members**.
	- Review and assign.
	
Now that the application is created, the below steps will guide you to retrieve the 4 tokens: 

> * Get the **subscription ID**:
> 	- Go to **Subscriptions** in Azure portal. 
> 	- Next to the name of your subscription you have the **Subscription ID**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Get the **subscription ID**:
	- Go to **Subscriptions** in Azure portal. 
	- Copy the *Subscription ID* next to the name of your subscription.
```

> * Get the **Tenant ID**:
> 	- Go to **Azure Active Directory**.
> 	- In **Overview**, under the name of the directory you will see the **Tenant ID**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Get the **Tenant ID**:
	- Go to **Azure Active Directory**.
	- Go to **Overview** and copy the *Tenant ID*.
```

> * Get the **Client ID**:
> 	- Go to **Azure Active Directory**.
> 	- On the left, select **App registrations** and the name of your application. 
> 	- In the **Overview** panel you will have **Application (client) ID**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Get the **Client ID**:
	- Go to **Azure Active Directory**.
	- Go to **App registrations** in the sidebars on the left and click on your application.
	- Go to **Overview** and copy the *Application (client) ID*.
```

* Get the **Client secret**:
	- Still in **Azure Active Directory > App registrations**, go to **Certificates & secrets**.
	- Click on **+ New client secret**, set description as well as expiration date and Add.
	- Save the **key value**, it is the **client secret** and you won't be able to retrieve it after you leave this page.
	

> These 4 tokens will be mandatory when using host autodiscovery and Centreon Azure based plugins. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These 4 tokens will be mandatory when using host autodiscovery and Centreon Azure based Plugins. 
```

## Azure CLI set up 

> *These steps are not required if you can use Azure API.* 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can put this sentence in a warning format
```suggestion
> These steps are not required if you can use Azure Monitor API.
```

Install Azure CLI:

```bash
sudo rpm --import https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc
sudo echo -e "[azure-cli]\nname=Azure CLI\nbaseurl=https://packages.microsoft.com/yumrepos/azure-cli\nenabled=1\ngpgcheck=1\ngpgkey=https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc" > /etc/yum.repos.d/azure-cli.repo
sudo yum install azure-cli-2.29.2-1.el7
```

Then, use the **centreon-engine** account to obtain a token:

```bash
su - centreon-engine
az login
```

The shell will output this message including an authentication code:

> 	*To sign in, use a web browser to open the page https://microsoft.com/devicelogin*
> 	*and enter the code CWT4WQZAD to authenticate.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
To sign in, use a web browser to open the page https://microsoft.com/devicelogin
and enter the code CWT4WQZAD to authenticate.*
```
```
